1. not going to use set FLASK_APP
instead try manually to run the app
result: works fine, so far no problem

2. added database, added migrate object
ran flask db init without setting FLASK_APP
result: works fine, so far no problem. migrations folder was added successfully
update: one small problem. forgot to register sqlalchemy db object with app -> main init -> db.init_app(app=app)
issue was fixed easily. database file created successfully.

3. tried to run flask db migrate -m "initial migration"
problem: no migration script was created.
problem was fixed by importing models at env.py of the alembic
# target_metadata = mymodel.Base.metadata

from app.models.user import User
another problem: should i now delete migrate.init_db in main init?
also migration script adjusted in password_hash field -> nullable attribute

4. tried to run flask db upgrade
result: seems to be no problem, needs to be tested later...
test data: user1 test@test.com 123
user2 test2@test.com 1
test3 test3@test.com 1

5. flask-login requires user model to have some certain attributes implemented. this can be done manually or using the provided mixin class. also user loader function must be added

6. make a .flaskenv file for flask's config vars, and a .env for app config vars.
.flaskenv can added to source control
.env should not because it contains prodcution deployment stuff

git so far:
git add -a
git commit -m "message"
git reset HEAD
git checkout
git reset --hard HEAD

contact manager:
add and delete are done.
delete works fine but needs fixing, use must noe be able te manually enter the url and delete an entry
edit remains to be implemented.

after this, password recovery, simply with recovery code gets emailed to users, and password reset link will appear.
after that login and registration captcha,
after that admin panel.
users sending tickets to admins.
user email verification
user accepting terms of services
user profile and edit profile (done)
user contact entry list pagination

do not use python, instead use flask shell

VERY IMPORTANT: app project folder and main file must not have the same name. (no app and app.py)